# Thing

A thing is the most basic interface for any real or digital asset.

## Schema

The schema is defined by its Type committed on chain.


## Example

A [Type](../type/Type.md) is created with properties that look like this:

```json
{
  "properties": [
    {
      "name": "title",
      "type": "String",
      "required": true
    },
    {
      "name": "description",
      "type": "md",
      "required": false
    }
  ]
}
```

We see that this Type has two properties; a title of type String and a description of type md (Markdown).

When a Type is created, it also autogenerates basic Widgets for creating and displaying this data, and so our Type looks like:

```json
"evrything.near": {
  "types": {
    "Idea": {
      "properties": [
        {
          "name": "title",
          "type": "String",
          "required": true
        },
        {
          "name": "description",
          "type": "md",
          "required": false
        }
      ],
      "widgets": {
        "summary": "Everything.Summary.Idea",
        "view": "Everything.View.Idea",
        "create": "Everything.Create.Idea"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The autogenerated "create" widget is a basic template and form for creating data of type "evrything.near/type/Idea", which consists of a title and description (a text input and a textarea).

When data is created via the Everything.Create.Idea widget, it will save to the Social contract:

```json
{
  "thing": {
    "main": "[DATA]"
  },
  "index": {
    "[DOMAIN]": "{ key: \"main\", \"value\": { \"type\": \"evrything.near/type/Idea\" } })",
  },
}
```

Since the Create widget was autogenerated, we know that the DATA will be following the properties of the Type. 

However, we allow this to be free form because maybe the developer doesn't want the data to be permanent and forever on chain. If the developer wants the data to be stored on chain, then DATA would look like this:

```json
{
  "title": "I have a cool idea!",
  "description": "With Types, we could let the user choose where the data is stored, while still keeping it predictable for developers."
}
```

But maybe the developer wants the data to follow the Type schema, then be POSTed to a decentralized storage service where it can have some privacy. In this case, it creates the data and saves a reference to the thingId instead:

```json
{
  "thingId": "thing123456789"
}
```

It doesn't matter how or where this data is stored, because the developer can design the view and summary widget to use the thingId to fetch the offchain data.

The DATA just needs to represent a thing of TYPE, no matter where it is stored.
